# Go Bindings for the NVSwitch Configuration and Query (NSCQ)

## Overview

This repository provides Go bindings for the [NVSwitch Configuration and Query
(NSCQ)].

Currently, these bindings are only supported on **Linux**.

These bindings are not a reimplementation of NSCQ in Go, but rather a set of
wrappers around the C API provided by `libnvidia-nscq.so`. This library is
typically installed alongside NVIDIA drivers, especially in systems with
NVSwitch hardware.

**Note:** A working NVIDIA driver with `libnvidia-nscq.so` is not required to
compile code that imports these bindings. However, you will get a runtime error
if `libnvidia-nscq.so` is not available in your library path at runtime.

## Quick Start

All you need is a simple import and a call to `nscq.New()` to load the dynamic
library and start using these bindings.

The code snippet below shows an example of using these bindings -

```go

package main

import(
  ...
)

func main() {
	nscqLibrary := nscq.New()
	if nscqLibrary == nil {
		log.Fatal("Unable to create NSCQ library")
	}
	defer func() {
		ret := nscqLibrary.Shutdown()
		if ret != nscq.Success {
			log.Fatalf("Unable to shutdown NSCQ: %d", ret)
		}
	}()

  var flags uint32 = 0
	session, ret := nscqLibrary.SessionCreate(flags)
	if ret != nscq.Success {
		log.Fatalf("Unable to create session: %d", ret)
	}

	arch, ret := nscqLibrary.SwitchArchitecture(session)
	if ret != nscq.Success {
		log.Fatalf("Unable to get architecture: %d", ret)
	}

	uuids, ret := nscqLibrary.SwitchDeviceUUIDs(session)
	if ret != nscq.Success {
		log.Fatalf("Unable to get device UUIDs: %d", ret)
	}

	nonce := make([]byte, nscq.NonceLength)
	report, ret := nscqLibrary.SwitchAttestationReport(session, nonce, uuids[0])
	if ret != nscq.Success {
		log.Fatalf("Unable to get attestation report: %d", ret)
	}

	nonce := make([]byte, nscq.NonceLength)
	certChain, ret := nscqLibrary.SwitchAttestationCertificateChain(session, nonce, uuids[0])
	if ret != nscq.Success {
		log.Fatalf("Unable to get attestation certificate chain: %d", ret)
	}

  ret := nscqLibrary.SessionDestroy(session)
	if ret != nscq.Success {
		log.Fatalf("Unable to destroy session: %d", ret)
	}
}
```

## How the bindings are generated

This project leverages two core technologies:

1. Go's built-in support for `cgo` (<https://golang.org/cmd/cgo/>)
2. A third-party tool called `c-for-go` (<https://c.for-go.com/>)

Using these tools, we are able to generate a set of Go bindings for NSCQ, given
nothing more than a specific version of the `nscq.h` header file (which defines
the full NSCQ API). Most of the process to generate these bindings is
automated, but few manual changes were made due to incomplete struct definitions
for certain bindings other than some changes in order to make the generated
bindings more useful from an end user's perspective.

The basic flow to generate the bindings is therefore to:

1. Take the `nscq.h` file and pass it through `c-for-go`
2. Take each of the low-level Go bindings generated by `c-for-go` and wrap them
   in a more user-friendly API

Detailed steps:

1. Install c-for-go: `go install github.com/xlab/c-for-go@latest`
2. Generate bindings via files in `gen/nscq` directory: c-for-go PATH_TO_NSCQ_YML_FILE

As an example, consider the Go bindings generated for the
`nscq_session_create(...)` API call below:

Original API in `nscq.h`:

```c
nscq_session_result_t nscq_session_create(uint32_t);
```

Auto-generated Go bindings from `c-for-go`:

```go
func sessionCreate(arg0 uint32) nscq_session_result_t {
	carg0, carg0AllocMap := (C.uint32_t)(arg0), cgoAllocsUnknown
	__ret := C.nscq_session_create(carg0)
	runtime.KeepAlive(carg0AllocMap)
	__v := *(*nscq_session_result_t)(unsafe.Pointer(&__ret))
	return __v
}
```

Manual wrapper around the auto-generated bindings:

```go
package nscq

func (l *library) SessionCreate(flags uint32) (*Session, Return) {
	return sessionCreate(flags)
}
```

Similarly other bindings and wrappers over them are generated in the `pkg`
directory.

It does take some effort to take the auto-generated bindings, modify them and
manually wrap them in the more user-friendly API, this has to be done until a
generator script is written with all the required rules, data structures etc.

The following section goes into the details of how the code is structured, and
what their purpose is.

## Code Structure

There are two top-level directories in this repository:

- `/gen`
- `/pkg`

The `/gen` directory is used to house any code used in the _generation_ of the
final Go bindings. The `/pkg` directory is used to house any static packages
associated with this project as well as the actual Go bindings once they have
been generated. The one exception is the code used to dynamically load the
`libnvidia-nscq.so` code from a host system and attach the go bindings to it.
This package requires no generated code and is housed statically under `pkg/dl`.
Once the code under `gen/nscq` has passed through `c-for-go` and any manual
wrappers applied, the final generated bindings are placed under `pkg/nscq`.

In general, the code used to generate the NSCQ Go bindings can be broken into 4
logical parts:

1. Code defining the NSCQ API and how any auto-generated bindings should be produced
2. Code responsible for dynamically loading `libnvidia-nscq.so` on a host system and hooking it up to the bindings
3. Code bridging the gap between any auto-generated bindings and the manual wrappers around them
4. The manual wrappers themselves
5. Test code

### Code defining the NSCQ API

The following files aid in defining the NSCQ API and how any auto-generated
bindings should be produced from it.

- `gen/nscq/nscq.h`
- `gen/nscq/nscq.yml`

The `nscq.h` file is a direct copy of `nscq.h` from the NVIDIA driver. Since
the NSCQ API is guaranteed to be backwards compatible, we should strive to keep
this always up to date with the latest.

Finally, the `nscq.yml` file is the input file to `c-for-go` that tells it how
to parse `nscq.h` and auto-generate bindings for it. Please see the [`c-for-go`
wiki](https://github.com/xlab/c-for-go/wiki) for more information about the
contents of this file and how it works.

### Test code

Currently, all test code is under the following file:

- `pkg/nscq/lib_test.go`

The test coverage is fairly sparse and could be greatly improved.
